                                        CREATING VIRTUAL SERVER USING EC2 IN AWS
Virtual Sever
-------------

A virtual server is a software-based server that operates on a physical server, enabling multiple virtual servers to share the same hardware
while running independently with their own operating systems and applications. This approach maximizes resource use and flexibility.

EC2
---
Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a scalable cloud computing service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It allows users to launch and
manage virtual servers, known as INSTANCES, on-demand. EC2 provides flexible computing capacity, enabling users to scale resources up or down 
based on their needs, and only pay for what they use.

Step 1 : Sign Up into AWS Account
---------------------------------
Sign Up into AWS Account Search for EC2 services and you will reach the EC2 dashboard and click on Instances on the left to create an Instance.

Step 2 : Creating an instance
-----------------------------
Click on Launch Instances to create an Instance
you will be directed to Launch an Instance . create Name and Tag(optional) for your Instance.

Step 3 : Choosing AMI ( Amazon Machine Image )
----------------------------------------------
An AMI is a template that contains the software configuration (operating system, application server, and applications) required to launch your instance.
We will be using Ubuntu for creating Instance in this module

Step 4 : Choosing Instance Type
-------------------------------
Instance Type : When you launch an instance, the instance type that you specify determines the hardware of the host computer used for your instance. 
Each instance type offers different compute, memory, and storage capabilities, and is grouped in an instance family based on these capabilities. 
Select an instance type based on the requirements of the application or software that you plan to run on your instance.

t2.micro belongs to t2 family which has Free tier eligible with compute power of 1 vCPU and Memory of 1 GiB. We will be using t2.micro for creating
Instance in this module

Step 4 : Creating key pair ( login )
------------------------------------
Key Pair : A key pair is used to securely connect to your instance.

A key pair, consisting of a public key and a private key, is a set of security credentials that you use to prove your identity when connecting to an 
Amazon EC2 instance. For Linux instances, the private key allows you to securely SSH into your instance. For Windows instances, the private key is 
required to decrypt the administrator password, which you then use to connect to your instance.

Amazon EC2 stores the public key on your instance, and you store the private key .It’s important that you store your private key in a secure place 
because anyone who possesses your private key can connect to your instances that use the key pair

Click on Create new key pair if you dont have a key pair.

Enter your key pair Name , select key pair type ( mostly RSA ) and choose private key pair file format

Putty : if you use putty to run Instance download the private file in .ppk format

OpenSSH : if you use OpenSSH to run Instance download the private file in .pem format

click Create key pair to create your new key pair.

Step 5 : Network Settings

When launching an EC2 instance, configuring the network settings is key to controlling how your instance connects to the internet and other resources.
You select a network and subnet to place your instance within, and you can choose to auto-assign a public IP address if you need internet access. 
A security group, acting as a firewall, is set up to manage the traffic that can reach your instance. Typically, SSH access is allowed for remote 
management, but it’s important to limit this access to specific IP addresses for security purposes.

Here new security group that created is called ‘launch-wizard-1’ with rules to allow SSH from Anywhere

( Note : Due to the complexity and importance of configuring network settings, we’ll cover this topic in greater detail in our next blog post. 
For now, we’ve created an instant security group without any specific configurations to get you up and running quickly. )
